---
title: "Hydra: Accurate Multi-modal Leaf Wetness Sensing with mm-Wave and Camera Fusion"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-12-04-hydra
excerpt: 'Hydra integrates mmWave radar and camera sensing with deep learning to detect leaf wetness and measure Leaf Wetness Duration. It achieves up to 96% accuracy across varied conditions and maintains around 90% accuracy in challenging environments.'
date: 2024-12-04
venue: 'Proceedings of the 30th Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking (MobiCom)'
paperurl: 'https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3636534.3690662'
author:
  - Yimeng Liu
  - Maolin Gan
  - "<strong>Huaili Zeng</strong>"
  - Li Liu
  - Younsuk Dong
  - Zhichao Cao
---

Leaf Wetness Duration (LWD), the time water remains on leaf surfaces, is critical for plant disease development. Existing LWD detection methods lack standardized techniques and robustness across different plant characteristics and environments. Prior research has proposed various approaches, but they often fail to measure real natural leaves directly and lack resilience under diverse conditions, limiting their effectiveness in agricultural applications. This paper introduces Hydra, an approach that integrates millimeter-wave (mmWave) radar with camera technology to detect leaf wetness and measure LWD. Hydra employs a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to fuse multiple mmWave depth images with an RGB image to generate feature images, followed by a transformer-based encoder to capture feature dependencies and produce a feature map for classification. Dataset augmentation during training further enhances model generalization. Implemented using a frequency-modulated continuous-wave (FMCW) radar within the 76–81 GHz band, Hydra is evaluated on plants under diverse scenarios. Results show up to 96% accuracy in classifying leaf wetness across conditions, and around 90% accuracy even in challenging environments such as rain, dawn, or low light.
